>> Burke Holland: I wanna talk to
you about data inside of VS Code.
Let's talk about working with data,
and I'll open this.
>> Burke Holland: And I think,
let's see I think what we wanna do here
is I'm gonna open
the Start folder directly.
And yeah, all right, so
I made the point earlier this morning that
you really do need to know about data and
be able to work with data at
some point from your editor.
Now, there are a lot of
different databases out there.
There is SQL Server, there's MySQL,
there's Post Scripts,
there's Oracle, there are document
based databases like Mongo dB,
Cosmos dB, Firebase,
there's a lot of them out there.
Usually databases are a black box.
In other words, your code talks to it,
but you can't really see inside of it
unless you're using some sort
of a command line tool or
something to query it,
but you can't see it.
There are sometimes third-party tools that
you can install, like Robo 3T for MongoDB.
But then you're going in and
out of your editor.
And depending on which
third-party tool you're using,
it may be to your standards or it may not.
And so databases have historically
been outside of the editor.
One of the things that Visual Studio
developers have enjoyed for
a long time is an integrated
SQL Server experience.
So if you've used Visual Studio before
you know that you can connect to your
SQL Server and you can just inspect it,
look at it query it.
You can even drag out and
create an object relational mapping
directly from Visual Studio.
Everybody else has not had this luxury.
So today what I wanna show you is how you
can bring in data into your development
environment.
So at this point we've got the dial
cranked way over to the left hand side,
like we are way towards 11 to
the point now where we ring and
bring the database inside.
So not only are we inside of a container
developing in an environment that's not on
our machine but we're gonna
bring databases into the mix to.
Now remember we just got done
doing remote containers.
We're gonna use them now.
So in order for you to complete this
project you have to have SQLite,
MySQL and MongodB installed,
but you don't because I've
created a remote container that
has all of those things for you.
So all you have to do here is, remote
containers, reopen folder in container.
So what I would like to do at least is,
I've made some changes to
this application so
that when you run it and you refresh it,
it saves colors to a MongoDB database
that you don't have installed,
but I've included it in the container so
it will be there.
In order to connect to
the database instance and
work with it,
you need to have the proper extension.
So I've included for
you the Cosmos DB extension.
Now Cosmos DB is an Azure database, but
the unique thing about it is
that it exposes the MongoDB API.
So you can use MongoDB API
to talk to Azure,
which means that you can also use it
to attach to any MongoDB database.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and
detach this one.
And we wanna attach to MongoDB.
So to do that, we're gonna say attach,
and it's gonna say what kind say Mongo.
And then it's want to know,
the the path, the address at MongoDB.
Now our MongoDB is running in a container
and it's called Mongo, it's right there.
So in order to attach to it,
this is how we do it.
We say mongodb://mongo because
that's the name of a container.
Because that container is linked to the
container we're in, we could say Enter.
And now we are attached to MongoDB.
And actually I've got a database here.
So let's delete this database and
create it again.
So what I'm gonna do here now is I
need a database inside of MongoDB to
store these values.
So I'm gonna create a database and
you just call it lamp.
And then it wants to know
the name of the collection.
I'm gonna call that colors.
Now inside of our MongoDB we have
a database and we have a colors here.
Let's do localhost 3000 and there we are.
And you can see our logs down here.
Let's go ahead and
remove this color picker.
So I'm gonna change
this color a few times.
Go Brown.
Let's go cyan, green,
magenta, all right.
So now, what I've done is I've run the app
a few times, and I've changed the colors.
And because I changed the code to
write to the MongoDB database,
we should now have some
records in said database.
Let's take a look here.
>> Burke Holland: Here's our mongo,
there's our lamp, here's our colors.
And here are the records
that have been inserted.
So we can see them now.
If I click on one,
there's the color that I did, okay?
Now, if I change this value,
let's say I change it to the only,
remember cyan.
And I click Save, it's gonna say, do you
wanna upload this and change the database?
So I can say yeah, done.
Now if I go back, let's look at this one
and look at this one, it's persisted.